as you can probably imagine time is very
important when it comes to computers you
want your computer to be in time
especially if you have more than one
computer say you have a thousand
computers and you want to like do stuff
across all of them well they better be
in time sync and it's not really a
problem that we have but when I saw this
product the time beat time card mini and
the other one in here this one called is
called the g0 KK I don't know if you're
supposed to call call it gawk I probably
should have asked them how to pronounce
it but it doesn't matter it was just too
cool to not check out I've never played
with one of these this guy right here
the gawk
one and this one as you could probably
guess is the time card mini you may or
may not be aware but basically every
computer on the planet I think I imagine
phones have them but definitely like
your gaming computer on its motherboard
will have something called a realtime
clock usually the clocks on computer are
not super accurate for example the
real-time clock in your average computer
will drift multiple seconds per day for
example this little add-on chip right
here can hold time down to 0.03 seconds
per year which is very accurate let's
focus on the time card mini for now
because the actual bones of these two
products are pretty much the same you've
got a Raspberry Pi compute module
4 we've got a little spacer board on the
back but this is the important part this
is the time teller right here you can
see the ublock Lea M8 F0 it's a GPS chip
so what this board basically does is
connects to GPS glow Nas Galileo
satellites gets very accurate time data
from them and then outputs it through
these pins to our little Raspberry Pi
and then we've got two little spots over
here for add-on modules these uh you can
put little chips on them and this chip
the SI T 5811 can hold one part per
billion accuracy for up to 8 hours in
terms of the rest of IO it has USB here
it's got an SD card slot here bunch of
dip switches primarily used for setup
you've got your connection points for
the raspy the full set of GPO pins for
the raspy which is super nice an antenna
connection USB on the- go connection two
type-c USBS and ethernet now you would
use this ethernet to well provide
internet to the Raspberry Pi and also to
send your time signaling out um as you
can imagine it's a little weird to be
plugging a computer into a computer
right this is a pcie card why would you
plug this computer into your other
computer the function of this is
literally just to give power it's
basically so you can add a very powerful
very accurate time server to your
existing infrastructure without having
to put like a a whole new rack Unit in
or like duct tape it to the side of your
rack or whatever aside from these just
being cool the reason I asked for them
was to make a Time server at Linus Media
Group for us the thing that kind of
sparked this idea is we were setting up
a cluster of computers using proxmox and
proxmox requires that the time sync be
within about 5 milliseconds you can
achieve that pretty easily by having any
local time server for instance most
routers will let you enable an ntp
server that runs on them which is what
we did and it worked totally fine but
you know it's me I want to do it like
fancy or silly and that's what we're
going to do with these do you think that
this I mean it just needs to provide
Power right I run the time card mini in
the gawk One Mini it's like time server
setion okay now I think I have to try
that I really hope this doesn't break it
I'd feel kind of bad if I broke it oh
look at that they're both blinking look
at that wow it works okay
we've got a Time server in the time
server can you see how this makes
perfect sense now it should be running
already you can see from the logs it's
connecting to cloudflare um that's an
ntp server a public time server uh that
I configure just as like a secondary
source usually you'd see a bunch of GPS
logs but that's because I haven't told
you about today's sponsor thanks to MSI
for sponsoring this video unlike your
homework there's one thing you won't
want to put off msi's amazing back to
school deals they're offering a wide
selection of laptops gaming PCs gpus and
more check out the MSI cyborg 14 an
entrylevel gaming laptop that's sleek
and Powerful perfect for gamers students
or anyone who needs both it's equipped
with a 14in full HD screen an Nvidia
4000 series GPU and an Intel i7
processor not quite what you're looking
for no worries MSI has plenty of other
laptops on sale right now be a good
student and check out MS back to school
deals using the link in the description
below sorry wrong thing I mean I haven't
plugged in the antennas yet so let's do
that you can use basically any GPS
antenna as far as I'm aware I got these
ones on Amazon this is meant for a boat
and I needed to get an adapter cuz this
uses BNC connectors now I wonder will we
have GPS reception in here zero
satellites in view look at that 10
satellites in view ooh wah wa we woo all
right look at this we got our gawk one
oh look it's ripping dude nothing like
measuring your time in Nan seconds it's
a very in-depth config file you can mess
around with a lot of different settings
and some far more advanced than others
um but what we're most interested in is
the primary clocks and secondary clocks
primary clocks usually you set as your
most accurate source of time in our case
we're going to use PPS from the GPS chip
and that's one pulse per second PPS
stands for and basically Bally what's
happening is the GPS chip on the time
card is sending a little electrical
signal at the start of every second and
that's going to sink our time down to
like Nan seconds or micros seconds and
be very accurate then in the secondary
clock section we're getting our major
time which is like what time of day it
is just down to the minute or second uh
we're getting that from cloud flare
time. cloudflare.com wow look at
that hey I don't know I feel like
something's funky is going on with this
one
the thing that's strange is it's like
reporting to the
dashboard very
infrequently ooh look at our offset it's
terrible we have 5c
variants I don't know what to do boys
it's been a few days but we've got the
GPS antennas outside we've got them
hooked up and we've sorted out the
couple little issues we were running
into I worked out with the time beat
guys and now this all makes a lot more
sense and it isn't crashing anymore I
want to just give you guys a little bit
of background here on the Raspberry Pi
there's like an issue with the kernel
code that they use to run the time beat
software it doesn't like having the GPS
serial connection which we call nmea as
well as PPS at the same time and they
did admit to me it is kind of their own
fault because they wrote the code but
they are working on a fix but for now we
can't really do both at the same time at
least not on the newer version
this is the older version you can see
here I'm running this on the time card
mini you can see we're reading the major
time from the GPS chip and it's several
hundred milliseconds out which makes
sense and then if we look at our
PPS it's pretty accurate but it's also a
bit all over the place for the most part
we're
talking within 10 nond accuracy but then
on other times it's 14 or 45 nond out
which is still mindboggling accurate but
they were telling me on a proper setup
without this bug they usually within 1 2
3 NS at all times which is so so stable
generally they recommended to me to just
disable this nmea data and use a public
time server like time. windows.com time.
cloudflare.com as your major time Source
now you might have a problem if the
internet goes out because you're losing
your major time Source but the GPS chip
does still have that information and the
pulse per second should still stay
relatively accurate but generally if you
have downtime of your main internet you
probably have bigger problems let's sync
my laptop to it hey it worked look at
that look how accurate the time is if I
sync to this local time server or like
half a millisec out some of that is just
going to be the clock on this Mac
probably not being the greatest thing
ever but uh we're also syncing over
Wi-Fi but there you go we have a local
time server getting its data from GPS
and from public time servers our gawk
One Mini our very own generally pretty
much within 10 NS which is kind ofing
insane I like this thing it's not
necessary for us at all don't get me
wrong what for our cluster setup as long
as they're all synced to like a local
time server we have our router acting as
that it's got a pretty accurate Nick and
maybe it's not true to actual time but
as long as they all think that they're
on the same time it doesn't really
matter but this is just cool and I like
doing cool stuff like this and I like
sharing it with you so get subscribed
hit like and tell me what you think
about acurate time you probably don't
need it either but it is fun and not
that expensive if you buy the normal
version of this and build it
yourself bye